Rewrite INSTALL instructions for python novices (#4750)
scikit-image/scikit-image: INSTALL.rst

Installing scikit-image
=======================

> We outline 4 different ways which we recommend using to get started with image

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We outline 4 different ways that we recommend to get started with image
```

processing and scikit-image.

1. `Scientific Python Distributions`_ -- Recommended
2. `pip based installation`_
3. `conda based installation`_
4. `System-wide package manager`_

After your installation, you should be able to run the following code
from a Python console or Jupyter notebook:

.. code-block:: python

  import skimage
  print("scikit-image installed with version " + skimage.__version__)

Should you have any questions getting started using ``scikit-image`` after
reading this guide, please open an issue on
`github <https://github.com/scikit-image/scikit-image/issues>`_

> to get additional help.

Reviewer: This conflicts a bit with our advice to use SO, image.sc, or the mailing list for questions.

Author: I can cross reference the contact us section

For those attempting to build scikit-image from source, or trying contribute
code back to scikit-image, we've provided development instructions below.

Scientific Python Distributions
-------------------------------

``scikit-image`` comes pre-installed with several Python distributions.
These have the advantage of comming pre-installed with many other useful
packages for scientific computing and image analysis. Follow the instructions
on the respective websites to get going. If you don't have python installed on
your computer, these are the fastest way to get started with your project.

> We can recommend the following 3 distributions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of June 2020, we recommend one of the following 3 distributions:
```

I like including dates in advice like this. When trawling the internet for posts, it's often hard to determine when a post was written, and the clearest indicator of whether the advice is stale is the written date. Even a "last updated" indicator on the page is not great because different parts of the page can get updated while specific bits go stale.

- `Anaconda <https://www.anaconda.com/distribution/>`_
- `Python(x,y) <https://python-xy.github.io/>`_
- `WinPython <https://winpython.github.io/>`_

Note that the version of ``scikit-image`` installed with these distributions
may different than the one you expect. This should not stop you from getting

> started with your project. We simply suggest you check the installed version of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
started with your project. We simply you check the installed version of
```

Author: Missing word?

Reviewer: Oops, I meant to write 
```suggestion
started with your project. We suggest you check the installed version of
```

``scikit-image`` with the code snippet included at the top of this guide so

> that you can refer to the appropriate documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that you can refer to the appropriate documentation version.
```

pip based installation
----------------------

To install ``scikit-image`` with `pip <https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/>`_, you
may use the following commands

.. code-block:: sh

  # Update pip to a more recent version
  python3 -m pip install -U pip
  # Install scikit-image

>   python3 -m pip install -U scikit-image

Reviewer: I kinda hate python3 as the command to recommend in 2020. I'd suggest using just `python` here.

Author: Honestly, its a toss up for me. I'm not really part of the main audiance that cares, but I am just trying to find a common denominator, which doesn't exist.

Author: ok

This is the easiest way of obtaining the latest released version of
``scikit-image`` if python is already available on your system.

We also offer an easy way to install related packages. These are often included
in scientific python distributions. To install many of them using ``pip`` use
the command:

.. code-block:: sh

>     python3 -m pip install scikit-image[optional]

Reviewer: Cool! I didn't know we actually did this!

Author: Yeah, we have a few others, but I don't feel like telling everybody about them in a "beginner" tutorial
https://github.com/scikit-image/scikit-image/blob/master/setup.py#L130

2. Linux on 32 bit arm (Raspberry Pi running Rapsbian): While we do not official support
   this distribution, we point users to `piwheels <https://wwww.piwheels.org>`_
   and
   `scikit-image's specific page <https://www.piwheels.org/project/scikit-image/>`_.

   - You may need to install additional system dependencies listed for
     `imagecodecs <https://www.piwheels.org/project/imagecodecs/>`_.
     See
     `issue 4721 <https://github.com/scikit-image/scikit-image/issues/4721>`_.

3. Linux on 64 bit arm (NVidia Jetson):
   - Follow the conversation on `Issue 4705 <https://github.com/scikit-image/scikit-image/issues/4705>`_.

While we do not directly support the platforms above, many of the core
developers have experience using the platforms listed above. Do not hesitate to
ask us questions pertaining to your specific use case.

.. note::

    If you would like to help package scikit-image for the platforms above, reach
    out on github so that we may help you get started.

.. tip::

    If you need to install ``scikit-image`` one these platforms today, we hope
    the developer instructions below can help get you started.

End of instructions
===================

> 

Reviewer: Remove?

Author: Will do. Thanks for getting that far!

I need to add developer instructions below.

I'll take them from the contribution guide. That one is too long.

Installing scikit-image

> =======================

Reviewer: Either remove the section below, or renaming it to "installing from source" or whatever...

Installing scikit-image
=======================

These instructions should help you get started using ``scikit-image``.

We outline 4 different ways which we recommend using to get started with image
processing and scikit-image.

1. Scientfic Python Distributions -- Recommended
2. ``pip`` based installations
3. ``conda`` based installations

> 4. System-wide package manager

Author: I guess i'm not a pro at rst. I think that is really important.

> 4. System-wide package manager

Author: Todo task added.

- `WinPython <https://winpython.github.io/>`_

These have the advantage of comming pre-installed with many other useful
packages for scientific computing and image analysis. Follow the instructions
on the respective websites to get going.

Note that the version of ``scikit-image`` installed with these distributions
may different than the one you expect. This should not stop you from getting
started with your project. We simply suggest you check the installed version of
``scikit-image`` with the code snippet included at the top of this guide.

2. ``pip`` based installation
-----------------------------

To install ``scikit-image`` with `pip <https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/>`_, you
may use the following commands

.. code-block:: bash

  # Update pip to a more recent version
  python3 -m pip install -U pip
  # Install scikit-image
  python3 -m pip install -U scikit-image

This is the easiest way of obtaining the latest released version of
``scikit-image``.

We also offer an easy way to install related packages. These are often included
in scientific python distributions. To install many of them using ``pip`` use
the command:

.. code-block:: bash

>   python3 -m pip install scikit-image[optional]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

    python3 -m pip install scikit-image[optional]
```
This seems to cause CI failure

> A note on virtual environments

Reviewer 2: I think that this must be the introduction of this section

Author: After teaching and working closely with about 10 new developers in python, i've learned that:

1. Until they have 2 projects going on at the same time, they just don't care about virtual envs.
2. If their work / course tells them to get scikit-image going, they are happy to "get it going once" then later, when their system breaks, they will work on learning about virtual environments.

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Scientific Python Distributions listed in the first section take care to only
install compatibile packages together. Often conflicts can arise between
specific combinations of packages. To avoid breaking your python environments,
we recommendg learning about virtual environments in python. You can learn more
about them by reading Python's official documentation on `Virtual Environments

> and Packages <https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html>`_.

Author: Thanks.

I think the `.. note::` or tip directive is rather weakly highlighted in our style.

Known challenges
++++++++++++++++

1. Different python installations can cause confusion. To check which python

>    executable you are using, use the commands:

Author: I used subsub sections and avoided this whole issue.

.. code-block:: bash

>   # Linux and MAC

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

    # Linux and MAC
```

  which python3
  # Windows
  where python3

> From your python console or jupyter notebook, you may use the python commands:

Reviewer 3: Also, I feel a little pedantic for raising this :sweat_smile:, I think "Python" and other names like "Jupyter" should be capitalized.

Reviewer 3: It's already done in a few places so maybe it's just due to being WIP.

Author: No thanks for clarifying that this is what you preferred

.. code-block:: python

  import sys
  print(sys.executable)

To make sure the executable used matches your expectations.

2. Never use ``sudo`` when installing packages with ``pip``. This may cause
   ``pip`` to overwrite important files for your operating system which may
   require you to completely reinstall your system.

3. ``conda`` based installation
-------------------------------

`conda <https://docs.conda.io>`_ can be a useful package manager for building
applications with dependencies not available on pypi in a cross-platform
setting. While detailed instructions on how to use conda are considered out of

> scope in this tutorial we point you to:

Reviewer 3: Okay, scratch the `conda-forge` part. I'll happily defer to your larger experience regarding this. But using the default channel should be alright, no?

> scope in this tutorial we point you to:

Author: default channel is included in the Anaconda install.

Conda (and conda-forge) also misses many important packages still required to install software.
I think it is safer to punt this, than to try and cover that wild wild west of ecosystem.
1 year ago, i would have said:
1. Install miniconda, then install scikit-image from conda-forge.

But today, I just tell people:

```
pip install scikit-image
```

- `conda's official documnetation <https://docs.conda.io>`_
- `conda-forge <https://conda-forge.org>`_ a channel maintained with the latest scikit-image package.
- `Miniconda <https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html>`_

4. System wide installation
---------------------------

**Linux only:** If you must use your system's package manager to install
scikit-image, we recommend reading the official documentation from your
operating system. Each operating system, and Linux distribution, has its own
package manager, and as such the exact installation steps might differ for each
system.

We warn that this may install an older version of scikit-image which we may not
support anymore. For these reasons, we **do not** recommend using the following

> strategy to install ``scikit-image``.

Reviewer 3: In the section above regarding scientific distributions it is simply acknowledged that an older scikit-image version might be installed while this paragraph clearly argues against such an outcome. Is this due to system packages being more out of date than scientific distributions?

Author: yeah, i was conflicted here too.

I just don't like asking novices to use the sudo command.

Thats not somethign i can say though.

> strategy to install ``scikit-image``.

Reviewer 2: Can't this be highlighted and moved to the beginning of the section?

Author: ok

Author: See rewording.

For brevity, we provide instructions for getting started with Ubuntu.
To install scikit-image, you may use the command:

.. code-block:: bash

>   sudo apt install python3-skimage

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

    sudo apt install python3-skimage
```

Author: thanks.

>   sudo apt install python3-skimage

Reviewer 3: If we include this, I'd argue that `conda install...` should also be covered.

Author: I'm happy to take this out, and point to ubuntu documentation too.

.. NOTE: I know we are repeating instructions. This is really important thought!

Please do not use the command ``sudo`` and ``pip`` together as ``pip`` may
overwrite critical system libraries which may require you to reinstall your

> operating system.

Reviewer 3: A `.. warning::` directive might fit very well here.

Author: thanks.

Known challenges
++++++++++++++++

> 1. Conflicting versions of Python: If you installed an other version of python, then the default ``python3``

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Conflicting versions of Python: If you installed another version of python, then the default ``python3``
```
Typo?

       https://www.piwheels.org/project/imagecodecs/ See
       `issue 4721 <https://github.com/scikit-image/scikit-image/issues/4721>_`.
3. NVidia Jetson (64 bit arm):
     * Follow conversation on
       `Issue 4705 <https://github.com/scikit-image/scikit-image/issues/4705>`_.

While we do not directly support the platforms above, many of the core
developers have experience using the platforms listed above. Do not hesitate to
ask us questions pertaining to your specific use case.

If you would like to help package scikit-image for the platforms above, reach
out on github so that we may help you get started.

End of instructions
===================

I propose ending the installation instructions here. This should get everybody
a working installation of scikit-image without complicating things with:

- compiler requirements (which users don't need)
- Build and doc dependencies
- Conda-forge instructions which we don't test with CIs and go stale quickly (e.g. channel priority)
  - Almost every month, I get a user confused about how to install opencv on conda-forge
    due to confusing instructions specifying the ``-c conda-forge``. I consider

>     conda-forge rather advanced usage.

Reviewer 3: Shouldn't this rather go into the PR description? Almost missed this relevant info to a comment I made.  :sweat_smile:

Author: moving.

.. _installing-scikit-image:

Installing scikit-image
=======================

We outline 4 different ways that we recommend to get started with image
processing and scikit-image.

1. `Scientific Python Distributions`_ -- Recommended
2. `pip based installation`_
3. `conda based installation`_
4. `System-wide package manager`_

After your installation, you should be able to run the following code
from a Python console or Jupyter notebook:

.. code-block:: python

  import skimage
  print("scikit-image installed with version " + skimage.__version__)

> For those attempting to build scikit-image from source, or trying contribute

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For those attempting to build scikit-image from source, or trying to contribute
```

prompt is not the Python command prompt, but, depending on your operating
system, this is called:

- A linux terminal window
- A MacOSX terminal window
- A Windows Command Prompt

In that window, execute the command:

.. code-block:: sh

  # For linux or mac
  which python
  # Linux and Mac might not have the command python point to python3
  which python3
  # For windows
  where python

Once you have found your Python command, use one of the commands to establish
the version of Python you are using:

.. code-block:: sh

  python --version

To ensure the version is at least Python 3.6. If not, you may not be able
to install the most updated version of scikit-image. However,
this should not stop you from installing an older version and get you going
with your image processing project.

We suggest you check the installed version of ``scikit-image`` with the
code snippet included at the top of this guide so that you can refer to the
appropriate documentation version.

**Installing scikit-image**

Now that you have found the Python executable on your machine, use the commands
below to install ``scikit-image``.

> The instructions below use the ``python`` command for simplificy. Make sure you

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The instructions below use the ``python`` command for simplicity. Make sure you
```

Versions of ``scikit-image`` after ``0.14.5`` no longer support Python2.

Additional Help and Support
---------------------------

Should you have any questions getting started using ``scikit-image`` after
reading this guide, feel free to ask us questions on:

- Our `forum on image.sc <https://forum.image.sc/tags/scikit-image>`_
- Our `mailing list <https://mail.python.org/mailman3/lists/scikit-image.python.org/>`_
- Our `chat channel <https://skimage.zulipchat.com/>`_
- `Stack Overflow <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/scikit-image>`_

to get additional help.

Finally, if you believe there is an issue with the instructions themselves,
please open a new issue on
`GitHub <https://github.com/scikit-image/scikit-image/issues>`_.

Supported platforms
-------------------

The platforms officially supported by scikit-image are:

1. Windows 64 bit on x86 processors
2. Mac OSX on x86 processors
3. Linux 64 bit on x86 processors

Since Windows 32 bit on x86 processors remains a popular platform, we continue
to support it for the time being. However, we strongly recommend all users of
Windows 32 bit begin to switch over to Windows 64 bit if they can.

> We are very insterested in learning how ``scikit-image`` is

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We are very interested in learning how ``scikit-image`` is
```

Unsupported platforms include:

1. Linux on 32 bit x86 processors.
2. Linux on 32 bit on ARM processors (Raspberry Pi running Rapsbian):

   - While we do not official support this distribution, we point users to
     `piwheels <https://wwww.piwheels.org>`_
     and their
     `scikit-image's specific page <https://www.piwheels.org/project/scikit-image/>`_.

   - You may need to install additional system dependencies listed for
     `imagecodecs <https://www.piwheels.org/project/imagecodecs/>`_.
     See
     `issue 4721 <https://github.com/scikit-image/scikit-image/issues/4721>`_.

3. Linux on 64 bit ARM processors (NVidia Jetson):

   - Follow the conversation on
     `Issue 4705 <https://github.com/scikit-image/scikit-image/issues/4705>`_.

While we do not directly support the platforms above, many of the core
developers have experience using the platforms listed above. Do not hesitate to
ask us questions pertaining to your specific use case.

.. note::

    If you would like to help package scikit-image for the platforms above,
    reach out on GitHub so that we may help you get started.

.. tip::

>     If you need to install ``scikit-image`` one these platforms today, we hope

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    If you need to install ``scikit-image`` on these platforms today, we hope
```

Installing scikit-image
=======================

We outline 4 different ways that we recommend to get started with image
processing and scikit-image.

1. `Scientific Python Distributions`_ -- Recommended
2. `pip based installation`_
3. `conda based installation`_

> 4. `System-wide package manager`_

Author: Lets leave this in because it is still a good way to install things, so long as you don't use pip...

> 4. `System-wide package manager`_

Reviewer 5: Then I'd say something like "in this order". Although, I think pip and conda are equivalent.

> 4. `System-wide package manager`_

Reviewer: > pip and conda are equivalent.

true, but conda does involve additional subtlety (channels) that we might not want to delve into too deeply...

After your installation, you should be able to run the following code
from a Python console or Jupyter notebook:

.. code-block:: python

  import skimage
  print("scikit-image installed with version " + skimage.__version__)

For those attempting to build scikit-image from source, or trying contribute
code back to scikit-image, we've provided instructions under the heading
`Installing scikit-image for contributors`_.

Scientific Python Distributions
-------------------------------

``scikit-image`` comes pre-installed with several Python distributions.

> These have the advantage of comming pre-installed with many other useful

Reviewer 6: Just a small misspell: change `comming` to `coming`.

Author: thanks!

packages for scientific computing and image analysis. Follow the instructions

> on the respective websites to get going. If you don't have python installed on

Author: thanks

your computer, these are the fastest way to get started with your project.
As of June 2020, we recommend one of the following 3 distributions:

- `Anaconda <https://www.anaconda.com/distribution/>`_
- `Python(x,y) <https://python-xy.github.io/>`_
- `WinPython <https://winpython.github.io/>`_

Note that the version of ``scikit-image`` installed with these distributions

> may different than the one you expect. This should not stop you from getting

Author: thanks

``scikit-image`` with the code snippet included at the top of this guide so
that you can refer to the appropriate documentation version.

pip based installation
----------------------

This is the easiest way of obtaining the latest released version of
``scikit-image`` if Python is already available on your system.

**Finding your Python command**

To install ``scikit-image`` with `pip <https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/>`_, you
may use the following commands from a command prompt. Note that this command
prompt is not the Python command prompt, but, depending on your operating
system, this is called:

- A linux terminal window
- A MacOSX terminal window
- A Windows Command Prompt

In that window, execute the command:

.. code-block:: sh

  # For linux or mac
  which python3
  # Linux and Mac might not have the command python
  which python
  # For windows
  where python
  # Windows might not have the command python3
  where python3

To ensure you know which python executable you are using.
We found that the most likely commands for users is:

- For MacOSX: ``python3``
- For Linux:  ``python3``
- For Windows: ``python`` (Notice the lack of 3)

> - If Python is installed with ``conda``, then it is: ``python``.

Author: I just removed this stuff.

Once you have found your Python command, use one of the commands to establish
the version of Python you are using:

.. code-block:: sh

  python3 --version
  python --version

To ensure the version is at least Python 3.6. If not, you may not be able

> to install the most updated version of scikit-image. However,

Author: thanks.

this should not stop you from installing an older version and get you going
with your image processing project.

We suggest you check the installed version of ``scikit-image`` with the
code snippet included at the top of this guide so that you can refer to the
appropriate documentation version.

**Installing scikit-image**

Now that you have found the Python executable on your machine, use the commands
below to install ``scikit-image``.
The instructions below use the ``python3`` command. Make sure you use the
command that you found calls the appropriate Python executable on your
particular machine.

.. code-block:: sh

  # Update pip to a more recent version
  python3 -m pip install -U pip
  # Install scikit-image
  python3 -m pip install -U scikit-image

We also offer an easy way to install related packages. These are often included
in scientific python distributions. To install many of them using ``pip`` use
the command:

.. code-block:: sh

    python3 -m pip install scikit-image[optional]

.. tip::

    Scientific Python Distributions listed in the first section take care to

>     only install compatibile packages together. Often conflicts can arise

Author: thanks

    between specific combinations of packages. To avoid breaking your python
    environments, we recommend learning about virtual environments in python.
    You can learn more about them by reading Python's official documentation on
    `Virtual Environments and Packages

>     <https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html>`_.

Author: ok

.. warning::

    Please do not use the command ``sudo`` and ``pip`` together as ``pip`` may

>     overwrite critical system libraries which may require you to reinstall your

Author: ok

<https://packages.ubuntu.com/focal/python/python3-skimage>`_.

.. warning::

    Please do not use the command ``sudo`` and ``pip`` together as ``pip`` may
    overwrite critical system libraries which may require you to reinstall your
    operating system.

Common challenges
-----------------

The following are a few common challenges encountered in install
``scikit-image``.

**Multiple Python installations**

Different python installations can cause confusion. The default command
``python3`` you type may not be the one you expect. To check which python
executable you are using, use the commands:

.. code-block:: sh

    # For Linux and MAC
    which python3
    # For Windows
    where python3

From your python console or Jupyter notebook, you may use the python commands:

.. code-block:: python

    import sys
    print(sys.executable)
    import skimage
    print("scikit-image installed with version " + skimage.__version__)

to make sure the executable used matches your expectations.

**sudo and pip**

Never use ``sudo`` when installing packages with ``pip``. This
may cause ``pip`` to overwrite important files for your operating system

> which may require you to completely reinstall your system.

Author: Yeah, i'm sure somebody is still going to type `sudo pip` after reading this guide.

For most Windows installations the `python3` executable does not exist.
This is currently being worked on with conda-forge and discussed in a
`GitHub issue <https://github.com/conda-forge/python-feedstock/issues/349>`_.

Versions of ``scikit-image`` after ``0.14.2`` no longer support Python2.

Additional Help and Support
---------------------------

Should you have any questions getting started using ``scikit-image`` after
reading this guide, feel free to ask us questions on:

- Our `forum on image.sc <https://forum.image.sc/tags/scikit-image>`_
- Our `mailing list <https://mail.python.org/mailman3/lists/scikit-image.python.org/>`_
- Our `chat channel <https://skimage.zulipchat.com/>`_
- `Stack Overflow <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/scikit-image>`_

to get additional help.

Finally, if you believe there is an issue with the instructions themselves,
please open a new issue on
`GitHub <https://github.com/scikit-image/scikit-image/issues>`_.

Supported platforms
-------------------

The platforms officially supported by scikit-image are:

1. Windows 64 bit on x86 processors
2. Mac OSX on x86 processors
3. Linux 64 bit on x86 processors

> Since Windows 32 bit on x86 processros remains a popular platform, we continue

Reviewer 6: Small typo: `processros` → `processors`.

Author: thanks!

   - You may need to install additional system dependencies listed for
     `imagecodecs <https://www.piwheels.org/project/imagecodecs/>`_.
     See
     `issue 4721 <https://github.com/scikit-image/scikit-image/issues/4721>`_.

3. Linux on 64 bit ARM processors (NVidia Jetson):

   - Follow the conversation on
     `Issue 4705 <https://github.com/scikit-image/scikit-image/issues/4705>`_.

While we do not directly support the platforms above, many of the core
developers have experience using the platforms listed above. Do not hesitate to
ask us questions pertaining to your specific use case.

.. note::

    If you would like to help package scikit-image for the platforms above,
    reach out on GitHub so that we may help you get started.

.. tip::

    If you need to install ``scikit-image`` one these platforms today, we hope
    the developer instructions below can help get you started.

Installing scikit-image for contributors
========================================

We are assuming that you have default Python environment already configured on
your computer and you intend to install ``scikit-image`` inside of it.

We also make a few more assumptions about your system:

> - You have a C compiler setup.
> - You have a C++ compiler setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You have a C compiler set up.
- You have a C++ compiler set up.
```

- You are running a version of python compatible with our system as listed
  in our `setup.py file <https://github.com/scikit-image/scikit-image/blob/master/setup.py#L212>`_.

> - You've cloned the git repository into a directory called ``scikit-image``. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You've cloned the git repository into a directory called ``scikit-image``.
- You have set up the `upstream` remote to point to our repository and `origin`
  to point to your fork.
```

  This directory contains the following files:

.. code-block::

    scikit-image
    ├── asv.conf.json
    ├── azure-pipelines.yml
    ├── benchmarks
    ├── CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
    ├── CONTRIBUTING.txt
    ├── CONTRIBUTORS.txt
    ├── doc
    ├── INSTALL.rst
    ├── LICENSE.txt
    ├── Makefile
    ├── MANIFEST.in
    ├── README.md
    ├── RELEASE.txt
    ├── requirements
    ├── requirements.txt
    ├── setup.cfg
    ├── setup.py
    ├── skimage
    ├── TODO.txt
    ├── tools
    └── viewer_examples

All commands below are assumed to be running from the ``scikit-image``
directory containing the files above.

Build environment setup
-----------------------

Once you've cloned your fork of the scikit-image repository,
you should set up a Python development environment tailored for scikit-image.
You may choose the environment manager of your choice.
Here we provide instructions for two popular environment managers:
``venv`` (pip based) and ``conda`` (Anaconda or Miniconda).

venv

> ====

Reviewer: ```suggestion
====

```

.. code-block:: sh

  # Create a virtualenv named ``skimage-dev`` that lives in the directory of
  # the same name
  python -m venv skimage-dev
  # Activate it. On Linux and MacOS:
  source skimage-dev/bin/activate
  # Install all development and runtime dependencies of scikit-image
  pip install -r <(cat requirements/*.txt)
  # Build and install scikit-image from source
  pip install -e . -vv
  # Test your installation
  pytest skimage

On Windows, please use ``skimage-dev\Scripts\activate`` on the activation step.

conda
=====

When using conda for development, we
recommend adding the conda-forge channel for the most updated version
of many dependencies.
Some dependencies we use (for testing and documentation) are not available
from the default anaconda channel. Please follow the official
`conda-forge installation instructions <https://conda-forge.org/#about>`_
before you get started.

.. code-block:: sh

  # Create a conda environment named ``skimage-dev``
  conda create --name skimage-dev
  # Activate it
  conda activate skimage-dev
  # Install major development and runtime dependencies of scikit-image
  # (the rest can be installed from conda-forge or pip, if needed)

>   conda install `for i in requirements/{default,build,test}.txt; do echo -n " --file $i "; done`

Reviewer: Ha, love this.

Author: the problem is that it doesn't work with windows.

>   # Install minimal testing dependencies
>   conda install pytest

Reviewer: Isn't this redundant with the above?

```suggestion
```

  # Install scikit-image from source
  pip install -e . -vv
  # Test your installation
  pytest skimage

Updating the installation
=========================

> When updating your isntallation, it is often necessary to recompile submodules

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When updating your installation, it is often necessary to recompile submodules
```

that have changed. Do so with the following commands:

.. code-block:: sh

    # Grab the latest source
    git checkout master

>     git pull

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    git pull upstream master
```

    # Update the installation
    pip install -e . -vv

Testing
-------

``scikit-image`` has an extensive test suite that ensures correct

> execution on your system.  The test suite has to pass before a pull

Reviewer: ```suggestion
execution on your system.  The test suite must pass before a pull
```

request can be merged, and tests should be added to cover any
modifications to the code base.

> We make use of the `pytest <https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/>`__

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use the `pytest <https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/>`__
```

testing framework, with tests located in the various
``skimage/submodule/tests`` folders.

Our testing requirements are listed below:

.. include:: ../../requirements/test.txt

>    :literal:

Reviewer: Very nice use of sphinx goodness here!

A run-through of the compilation process for Windows is included in
our `setup of Azure Pipelines`_ (a continuous integration service).

.. _setup of Azure Pipelines: https://github.com/scikit-image/scikit-image/blob/master/azure-pipelines.yml
.. _here: https://wiki.python.org/moin/WindowsCompilers#Microsoft_Visual_C.2B-.2B-_14.0_standalone:_Visual_C.2B-.2B-_Build_Tools_2015_.28x86.2C_x64.2C_ARM.29
.. _MinGW compilers: http://www.mingw.org/wiki/howto_install_the_mingw_gcc_compiler_suite

**Debian and Ubuntu**

Install suitable compilers:

.. code-block:: sh

  sudo apt-get install build-essential

> Full reuqirements list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Full requirements list
```

----------------------
**Build Requirements**

.. include:: ../../requirements/build.txt
   :literal:

**Runtime Requirements**

.. include:: ../../requirements/default.txt
   :literal:

**Test Requirements**

.. include:: ../../requirements/test.txt
   :literal:

**Documentation Requirements**

.. include:: ../../requirements/docs.txt
   :literal:

**Optional Requirements**

You can use ``scikit-image`` with the basic requirements listed above, but some
functionality is only available with the following installed:

* `SimpleITK <http://www.simpleitk.org/>`__
    Optional I/O plugin providing a wide variety of `formats <https://itk.org/Wiki/ITK_File_Formats>`__.
    including specialized formats using in medical imaging.

* `Astropy <https://www.astropy.org>`__
    Provides FITS I/O capability.

* `PyQt5 <https://wiki.python.org/moin/PyQt>`__ or `PySide2 <https://wiki.qt.io/Qt_for_Python>`__ through `qtpy <https://github.com/spyder-ide/qtpy>`__
    A ``Qt`` plugin will provide ``imshow(x, fancy=True)`` and `skivi`.

* `PyAMG <https://pyamg.org/>`__
    The ``pyamg`` module is used for the fast `cg_mg` mode of random
    walker segmentation.

* `Dask <https://dask.org/>`__

>     The ``dask`` module is used as to scale up certain functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The ``dask`` module is used to speed up certain functions.
```

.. include:: ../../requirements/optional.txt
  :literal:

**Extra Requirements**

> These requirements have been included as a conveinence, but are not widely

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These requirements have been included as a convenience, but are not widely
```
